# Making Maps with D3

This workshop assumes you know the following:

* JavaScript
* How to make a basic bar chart with D3:
  * Selections
  * Appending
  * Binding Data
  * Path Generation

But if you don't know D3 or are kind of fuzzy, here's a basic introduction.
(Open d3_review.html)

* Selections:
  * change fill color
  * Change "r"
  * Pass in function to randomly change cx
  * Change class of circles
  * Append a rectangle to parent

* Binding Data
  * Select #example_5 svg and append a "g" element
  * Call group "bubbles"
  * Give an array of objects
  * create "bubbles" based on size and position attributes
  * Realize you really need to create a scale

* Path Generation
  * SVG has a language used to define path elements
  * The language for a path lives in the `d` attribute
  * Path generators need to define an x and a y function
  * Y is upside down, so we need to subtract y value from height

Alright, we're all caught up. Let's start building a map.

## Basemap

When we use mapping libraries like mapbox, Google maps, here's what the code looks like:

(examples here)

We have a few lines up here to draw the base map at this location
with a few settings, like zoom settings, and then we have a few
lines to create a marker. The JS library takes care drawing
the map, translating lat/long to pixel values, and adds fun features
like labels, scrolling, colors, styles, etc.

Drawing maps with D3 is nothing like that.
You don't even get map boundaries - you need to find shapefiles
yourself and translate it to JSON to load onto the page. However,
D3 provides some powerful tools to let us draw maps exactly how
we want them to be displayed on the page.

We're going to first draw a "basemap". A basemap is a map that shows
geographic context: country, state, and county borders are propreties
of basemaps. Geological features are also basemap properties. We're going
to be drawing a basemap of the continental US with state boundaries.

(File formats: shapefiles, geojson, topojson: BORING MAKE IT SHORT)

We could go through the hassle of digging through the internet for shapefiles,
converting it to geojson, then converting it to topojson, but this tutorial from
Mike Bostock does a really good job of it. It's also quite tedious and I try to
write scripts to automate that process so I don't have to keep doing it.
https://bost.ocks.org/mike/map/

We have a Topojson file here. This file contains the outline for the US, state
boundaries, and county boundaries. Let's draw each.

## Thematic maps

When we want our maps to focus on specific data that doesn't relate to geographic features,
such as boundaries, transportation, or geologic features, we can create thematic maps.
Now that we have a clean basemap created, we can plot a specific subject of data on top of the
map to communicate important information and patterns.
Census maps are popular examples of thematic maps.
